Event Bridge Patten (#110)
microsoft/alguidelines: content/BCPatterns/event-bridge-pattern/index.md

```AL
interface "IScale"
{
    procedure GetWeight(): Decimal;
    procedure Tare();
}
```

## Problem

Multiple apps can subscribe to certain events of the app.
When a new implementation is created, we need to make sure that these events are raised at the right times.  If those events were published on the implementation codeunit, it might very well be that those events will not be raised, hard to find, or whatever.

So, if we would implement it like this, it isn't really extensible, as a different implemention would implement different events .. and it's not possible to subscribe to all of them (including future implementations)

```AL
codeunit 50407 "Scale Wrong" implements IScale
{
    procedure GetWeight() Result: Decimal;
    begin
        //TODO: Implement Bar GetWeight
        OnAfterGetWeight(Result);
    end;

    procedure Tare();
    begin
        //TODO: Implement Bar Tare
        OnAfterTare();
    end;

    [IntegrationEvent(false, false)]
    procedure OnAfterGetWeight(var Result: Decimal)
    begin
    end;

    [IntegrationEvent(false, false)]
    procedure OnAfterTare()
    begin
    end;
}
```

## Description

> To mitigate this problem, we can work with a new, dedicated, isolated, codeunit, with publish events to be able to raise them from different places.

Reviewer: Testing the new suggestion feature as used by Henrik
```suggestion
To mitigate this problem, we can work with a new, dedicated and isolated codeunit, with publisher events to be able to raise them from different places.
```

+++
title = "Event Bridge Pattern"
weight = 1180
+++

<_Created by waldo & Arend-Jan Kauffmann, Described by waldo_\>

## Abstract

In the world of interfaces, it is important to preserve (certain) events over multiple implementation of the interface.

## Context

An app can have interfaces.
It makes it possible for other apps to extend/change the implementations of a certain part of the business logic.

Like in this example, we have an interface, to implement different ways for getting weights from scales:

```AL
interface "IScale"
{
    procedure GetWeight(): Decimal;

>     procedure Tare();

Reviewer: Q: Is a second procedure neccessary for describing this pattern or wouldn't it be simpler to just focus on one?
In any case, it shows that the pattern is applied consistenlty, which is good.

Author: It isn't - but it made it easy for me to copy/paste ;-).  Let's keep it?

Reviewer: Sure let's keep them 👍

}
```

## Problem

Multiple apps can subscribe to certain events of the app.
When a new implementation is created, we need to make sure that these events are raised at the right times.  If those events were published on the implementation codeunit, it might very well be that those events will not be raised, hard to find, or whatever.

> So, if we would implement it like this, it isn't really extensible, as a different implemention would impement different events .. and it's not possible to subscribe to all of them (inculding future implementations)

Reviewer: Typo: [...] as a different implemention would imp**l**ement different events [...] --- (impement to implement)
Typo: [...] to all of them (inc**lu**ding future implementations) --- (inculding to including)

```AL
codeunit 50407 "Scale Wrong" implements IScale
{

> 

Reviewer: Remove empty line.

    procedure GetWeight() Result: Decimal;
    begin
        //TODO: Implement Bar GetWeight
        OnAfterGetWeight(Result);
    end;

    procedure Tare();
    begin
        //TODO: Implement Bar Tare
        OnAfterTare();
    end;

    [IntegrationEvent(false, false)]
    procedure OnAfterGetWeight(var Result: Decimal)
    begin
    end;

    [IntegrationEvent(false, false)]
    procedure OnAfterTare()
    begin
    end;
}
```

## Description

To mitigate this problem, we can work with a new, dedicated, isolated, codeunit, with publish events to be able to raise them from different places.

> ```

Reviewer: Eventually the AL tag is missing for this codeblock.

codeunit 50406 "IScale Triggers"
{
    [IntegrationEvent(false, false)]
    procedure OnAfterGetWeight(var Result: Decimal)
    begin
    end;

    [IntegrationEvent(false, false)]
    procedure OnAfterTare()
    begin
    end;
}
```

This way, it's possible to raise the events in all the implementations:

```AL
codeunit 50405 "Scale Bar" implements IScale
{
    var
        IScaleTriggers: Codeunit "IScale Triggers";

    procedure GetWeight() Result: Decimal;
    begin
        //TODO: Implement Bar GetWeight
        IScaleTriggers.OnAfterGetWeight(Result);
    end;

    procedure Tare();
    begin
        //TODO: Implement Bar Tare
        IScaleTriggers.OnAfterTare();
    end;
}
```

## Benefits

This new codeunit, with public events, makes the events accessible from all places, including new apps that are dependent from this app, and wants to extend the 

The naming convention (both starting with "IScale") also makes it very easy to find that corresponding events for the interface.

## When not to use

> Obiously, the events should be carefully considered: only the events that make sense to "share" over all implementations, need this approach.

Reviewer: Typo: Ob**v**iously
